# chat-with-notes
A RAG-based (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) application that allows users to upload their own documents (PDF, DOCX, TXT) and interact with them using a conversational AI interface powered by LangChain and OpenAI.

## Motivation
As a student, I often face the challenge of preparing for exams with long and dense notes. Sometime, I remember key phrases but struggle to locate the full contexts in the notes. To solve this, I built this AI assistant that lets users chat with their notes. Users can simply upload their documents and ask a question, and the system will retrieve relevant contents from the notes.

To enhance learning, the app also generates quiz questions from the uploaded notes so users can actively test themselves and reinforce key concepts.

## Features
- Upload documents(PDF, DOCX, TXT)
- Chunk and embed text for semantic search
- Ask questions and get answers based on the uploaded documents
- Built-in chat memory to keep track of conversation context
- Q&A generation 
- Simple and intuitive Streamlit interface

## Evaluation
To measure the quality of the answers generated by the RAG system, I used the Ragas framework, which evaluates:
- **Faithfulness:** How well the answer is supported by the source document. It ranges from 0 to 1, with higher scores indicating better consistency.
- **Answer Relevancy:**:  Whether the answer is on-topic and directly answers the user's question. The higher the score, the better the answers align with the user's question.
- **Context Precision:** The proportion of relevant chunks in the retrieved contexts.
- **Context Recall:** How many of the relevant documents (or pieces of information) were successfully retrieved.

More details of ragas framework: https://docs.ragas.io/en/stable/concepts/metrics/available_metrics/

The full evaluation results are saved in: `sample/evaluation_result.csv`

## Setup Instructions
### 1. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/KelllyChen/chat-with-notes.git
cd chat-with-your-notes
```
### 2. Create and Activate a Virtual Environment
```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

### 3. Install Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 4. Add Your Environment Variables
Create a `.env` file and include:
```bash
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_key_here
```

### 5. Run the App(Demo)
```bash
streamlit run app.py
```


## Future Improvements
-  Improve quiz evaluation logic: currently, user answers are sometimes marked incorrect if the order of items differs from the reference answer — plan to implement smarter matching 
- Add user authentication for saving personalized sessions
- Enable exporting generated quiz questions and answers
- Add option to download full Q&A chat history

